right our health commissioner dr. Howard
Zucker to my immediate right special
guest Makayla Kennedy Cuomo my left
secretary to the governor Melissa De
Rosa to her left budget director Robert
mica let me make a couple of points if I
can today again the context the
perspective is probably what's most
important corner virus is a governmental
critical governmental situation it's a
public health crisis
government has to respond to it and
that's where the coverage is all about
it is a war in many ways and government
has to mobilize as if it is a war
federal government has now engaged in a
way they haven't been I think that is
very good news I've worked in the
federal government that was a cabinet
secretary and one of the senior
governors in the nation I know what a
state can do I know what the federal
government can do and States don't fight
wars they did it at one time in this
nation's history it was a tragedy the
federal government has the capacity to
mobilize the way we need society to
mobilize today and I've had numerous
conversations with the president I spoke
with him again last night he is
mobilizing he's mobilizing the federal
government we had a number of meetings
with different federal officials
yesterday and I think that is the best
positive sign that the federal
government is actually stepping up to
the plate you will see that this has
been diagnosed pardon the pun as a
health care crisis from moment one this
has always been about one thing reducing
the rate of spread so the health care
system can manage it and it's been a
question of math and projections and it
is still exactly that can we get the
spread down to a rate that the health
care system can manage
what is going to be the issue in the
healthcare system
it's gonna be the number of hospital
beds it's going to be the amount of
protective equipment and most of all
it's going to come down to ventilators a
piece of equipment that up until now was
relatively inconsequential but when you
have respiratory illnesses and then this
volume of respiratory illnesses all of a
sudden the number of ventilators becomes
critical just to give you a sense of
scope we have about 5,000 6,000
ventilators that we can identify we need
about 30,000 ventilators this is a
nationwide problem I was on the phone
with the governor's from the other
states with the National Governors
Association yesterday every state is
shopping for ventilators we're shopping
for for ventilators we literally
literally have people in China shopping
for ventilators which is one of the
largest manufacturers so this is a major
problem it's an issue that the federal
government can actually play a very
constructive role there's something
called the federal defense procurement
Act where the federal government can
basically order companies to produce
certain materials and we're going to
need protective equipment in hospitals
we're going to need ventilators and that
is something that a state can't do but
the federal government can do also as
this has gone on we said we are fighting
a war on two fronts we're fighting the
virus and we're fighting fear and they
are two totally different situations
that you have to deal with in many ways
the fear is more dangerous than the
virus I started working on disasters
emergency situations
when I was in my 30s my first experience
was Hurricane Andrew in Homestead
Florida and I felt it I saw on the
ground what happens when people panic
and the panic in the fear is as
dangerous or more dangerous than the
hurricane I've seen it in floods I've
seen it in fires
we now have misinformation and fear in
panic which is as contagious or more
contagious than the virus and we have to
deal with both of them I've had some
conversations that are just irrational
with people who heretofore were wholly
rational I had a conversation last night
with a business person from New York
City who I know who was panicked that
New York City was going to be locked
down that they were going to be
roadblocks that they were going to be
mandatory quarantine he was going to be
imprisoned in this house I said you know
where did you hear that
well that's what they say that's what
I'm hearing they're saying and I was
saying you know look I would know right
because I would have to authorize those
actions legally it's not going to happen
well I hear it is going to happen I said
but I know but I would have to do it and
I'm telling you I'm not doing it it must
have taken me 25 minutes just to slow
him down to hear the information when
you get that emotional that fearful you
literally don't process information the
same way so we have to be very aware of
that clear communication from everyone
from our friends in the media from the
health care professionals from all
elected officials clear communication
consistent communication because
misinformation emotion fear panic is
truly more dangerous than the virus at
this position in my opinion because the
facts on the virus we know we've watched
it from China to South Korea we've
studied it here we know the numbers it
is exactly what we said it was it's
exactly what we said it was from day one
we talked about the increased spread we
talked about the vulnerable populations
seniors compromised immune systems
people with underlying illnesses so we
know what this virus does we know how it
communicates and we know how to deal
with it it's not going to be easy it's
not going to be pretty but we know the
trajectory of the virus let's just take
a deep breath and make sure we're all
we're acting on facts as opposed to
acting on fear when you act on fear then
you're in a dangerous place the facts we
can handle let me give you a couple of
the new facts today just to recap we
said we have a plan of action there are
three steps flatten the curve slow the
spread increase the current hospital
capacity and number three identify new
hospital beds do them all at the same
time which is the challenge make
government work mobilize operationalize
get it all done get it all done today on
density reduction this is a data-driven
decision look at the increase in the
number of cases look at the hospital
capacity and do adjust and do everything
you can to slow the increase of the
spread so that your hospital system can
deal with the growth we have been taking
increasing steps on density reduction
because the numbers have been increasing
and again this is driven by science and
by data we said voluntary work from home
mandatory closing of school statewide
mandatory reduction of state and local
workforce mandatory tri-state agreement
on bars restaurants gyms mandatory in
office workforce cut by 50% we said that
yesterday the numbers have gone up
overnight I am going to increase the
density control today no more than 25%
of people can be in the workforce
yesterday it was 50% we're reducing it
again except the essential services that
we spoke about yesterday that means 75%
of the workforce must stay at home and
work from home again voluntarily I'm
asking all businesses to have people
work from home as a mandate 75% of your
employee base must work from home in
terms of increasing current Hospital
capacity our current hospital capacity
is about 50 thousand beds statewide
majority of those beds are in downstate
New York Commissioner Zucker is working
with the hospital industry is going to
put out new regulations assessing how
many more beds we can get in our
existing hospitals waiving Department of
Health rules waiving Department of
Financial Service roads
how many more beds can we get in those
hospitals and we're working on that
aggressively at the same time
identifying new hospital beds the Army
Corps of Engineers was with us yesterday
we had a very good meeting we're looking
at sites across the state to find
existing facilities that could
expeditiously be turned into health care
facilities and again when I said the
federal
bounces very welcome I want to thank the
president he said that he would bring
the Army Corps of Engineers here they
came here the next day I spoke to him
last night to follow up on the meeting
so this is going forward aggressively
we're also going to take a bold action
but a necessary action that offering
90-day relief on mortgage payments
waiving mortgage payments based on
financial hardship meaning if you are
not working if you're working on in
part-time we're going to have the banks
and financial institutions waive
mortgage payments for 90 days that will
be a real life economic benefit it will
also be a stress reliever for many
families waiving these payments will not
have a negative effect on your credit
report there'll be a grace period for
loan modification we're not exempting
people from the mortgage payments we're
just adjusting the mortgage to include
those payments on the back end no late
fees or online payment fees postponing
or suspending any foreclosures during
this period of time and waiving fees for
overdrafts ATM credit cards this is a
real life benefit people are in the
tremendous economic pressure making a
mortgage payment can be one of the
number-one stressors eliminating that
stressor for 90 days I think will go a
long way again we'll reassess as the
situation goes on if that should be
extended or not number of positive cases
total positive 4,000 number of new
positive 1769 you see additional
counties that are being added to count
these that have cases the spread mirrors
what's happening in the country just as
a spread
has gone through all states the spread
is going through our counties was
downstate first it's now moving upstate
New York now has two thousand cases
Washington State
eleven hundred cases Washington State
had cases earlier because it went
through a nursing home if you remember
but New York State has more cases than
Washington State more more cases than
any state in the nation and I've made
that point to the federal government and
the president and he understands that if
there's a state that needs help the
state by the number of cases is New York
in terms of testing we have tested now
22,000 we tested 7500 people last night
why are you seeing the numbers go up
because you are taking more tests people
see those numbers go up they get nervous
they panic or look at how many more
people have the virus
that's not how many more people have the
virus you're just taking more tests so
you're finding more positives there are
thousands and thousands of people who
have the virus
who we're not testing there are
thousands and thousands of people who
had the virus before we started testing
there are thousands and thousands of
people who had the virus and who
resolved and never knew they had the
virus we're still testing because you
want to find those positive cases so you
can track them down isolate people and
stop the spread but you can't watch
these numbers like the stock market and
say well that's the indicator of of
anything other than the indicator of how
many tests were taking it is good news
that we're now up to 7500 tests we were
at one time doing 200 tests per day just
to put that 7,500 in focus so that's a
tremendous increase
in the number of tests and you want to
see the numbers go up the
hospitalization rate is very relevant
because remember this is all about the
flow into the healthcare system so 777
out of 4152 perspective perspective
perspective we know the virus we know
what it does we know who it hurts we
know who defects Johns Hopkins since day
one has tracked this virus through China
222 thousand cases 9,000 deaths eighty
four thousand recoveries 129,000 pending
one last point we talk about this as a
government response the federal
government's doing this the government
is doing this government government
government this this manifests on a
number of levels and the government
response is obviously very important but
the impact I think is greater greater
and probably greatest as a social
phenomenon and on people and on families
this is tremendously disruptive on all
sorts of levels it came out of the blue
for me in New Yorker reminds me of 9/11
where one moment which was inconceivable
just changed everything changed your
perspective on the world change your
perspective on safety children who were
young at that time but of school age
watched on TV they didn't know if their
parents were coming home I think it
changed their whole outlook on life
after 9/11 this is a situation like that
it's obviously totally different
magnitudes but it's like that it's a
moment that just changes your whole life
yesterday you were going to work and you
were going to go to the office party
today
you're at home and the kids are at home
and you're worried about health and
you're worried about your job and you're
worried about economics and you're
dealing with personal issues and you're
dealing with family issues and it's all
happening at once and then you turn on
the TV and there's all this different
information and nobody can tell you if
this is gonna be 30 days or 60 days or
four months or five months or nine
months the stress the emotion is just
incredible and rightfully so it is a
situation that is one of the most
disruptive that I have seen and it will
change almost everything going forward
it will that is a fact it's not your
perception it's not just you it's all of
us and it's true and it's real nobody
can tell you when this is going to it
nobody can tell you I talked to all the
experts nobody can say two months four
months nine months nobody it's hard
living your life with that big a
question mark out there nobody can tell
you when you go back to work people can
tell you that it's not just you
economically it's everyone take comfort
in that federal government is actually
acting on an economic package but it's
true having your family all together is
a beautiful thing it's also different
for a lot of people especially for a
prolonged period of time so these are
major shifts in life and in the most
emotional stressful conditions that you
can imagine and I think my own personal
advice is understand that for what it is
and that it's not just you it has
changed everything and it will for the
for the foreseeable future and think
through how you're going to deal with it
and what it means and even try to find a
positive in it right it's a very
negative circumstance but you're going
to have time on your hands you're gonna
have time with your family you're gonna
have time at home in this busy hurry up
world all of a sudden somebody said ok
you have a couple of months where you're
gonna be home with the family no work
you work from home but it's a totally
different situation how do you use that
how do you adjust it's not gonna be done
overnight but it is something that
everybody has to think through my last
last point is to the younger people in
our great state in an out Great Society
and that's why I invited our special
guests here today Michaela my
grandfather Andrea my grandfather on my
father's side name was Andrea I'm named
for my grandfather Andrew
italian-american immigrant when I was
young
ish I was like 16 17 18 and I would do
something that he didn't like he would
just look at me and he would say we grow
too soon old and too late smart and I
would say what does that mean grandpa
you praise that a criticism we grow too
soon old too late smart these pictures
of young people on beaches these videos
of young people saying is my Spring
Break you know I'm out the party this is
my time to party this is so
unintelligent and reckless I can't even
begin to
express it now I had a conversation with
my daughter about this I'm governor of
the state I can order a quarantine of
10,000 people but I can't tell my
daughter to do anything all right and I
have to be careful because there's
almost an inverse response to a direct
action but I did say to all three of
them from as soon as they could crawl I
used one line what is the one line I
used to say risk reward risk reward risk
for award just pose the question I
couldn't offer an answer because of
whatever answer I would offer they would
do the other risk for award it makes no
sense to go expose yourself to these
conditions and expose other people
expose other people
Michaela wanted to take first of all
Michaela was graduating this year and
her school closed two online courses so
she's not going to have the graduation
we're gonna have a big party at the
appropriate time we don't know what that
time is going to be if it's gonna be two
months four months six months nine
months but at the first opportunity
we're gonna have a big party so that's
going to happen but she was deprived of
the last year and the last few months of
college which I'm sure were very intense
study period and that's what she's
deprived of that intense study period of
those last few weeks I remember those
last few weeks a lot of study but that's
a shift in life but she was going to
take a vacation on spring break and go
with friends and take a trip and
risk/reward and luckily she made the
right decision and I'm proud of her for
that
no prompting from me besides the
questions risk/reward what these people
are doing is the risk does not justify
the reward they're putting themselves at
risk young people can get coronavirus
that's one of the other myths young
people don't get it young people do get
it and young people can transfer it and
you can wind up infecting someone and
possibly killing someone if you're
exposed to it risk for reward questions
comments the economic consequences here
are for the MTA for the state budget for
County budgets town budgets Villa
village budgets all the public
authorities it's just a big question
mark they've all lost tremendous
revenues and we're gonna have to figure
out as a nation how to deal with this
the ridership is down on the MTA and the
revenue is down on the MTA and say hello
to every other public transit system in
this United States of America so it's
going to have to be a national response
[Music]
is there any plan right now
yeah the MTA will continue running
they're an essential service on the
essential service list and the revenues
we're going to have to make do Rob do
you have anything that you want to wear
right now we're looking at the ridership
where a writer ship is down in all of
the systems right but the workers are
there
the workers are running the trains the
trains are running on time and New York
City still has right there are still
some businesses and essential services
that are flowing so the MTA is part of
bringing bringing people back and forth
so right now we're looking at that but
every transit system in the nation is
facing the same the same reality
we're looking at we're looking at the MT
as well so this is part of the
discussions that we're having with the
legislature right now we're looking at
the as the governor mentioned the entire
budget is impacted right this right so
we're gonna have to have flexibility in
the budget to be able to prioritize
certain services over others as the
governor indicated the MTA is an
essential service for New York City also
remember all these broad statements we
have to run a government we have to run
and service a society right we need the
health care system up and running
doctors have to get to work nurses have
to get to work health care workers have
to get to work we need police we need
fire we need bus drivers we need day
care workers that all those functions
have to happen so we need a
transportation system because we need
people getting to work
refuse has to be picked up right all
these functions have to continue so when
they talk about shutdown you know we
have to make sure we're operational and
healthy and functional I know you've had
trouble with the phrase shelter in place
but are you considering any kind of more
stringent restrictions on people leaving
the home or going to businesses or
things like that
yeah the I believe communication is
important and I believe words are
important say what you mean and don't
say what might alarm people the level of
alarm in this country in this state
especially in New York City is higher
than I have ever seen it somehow people
have the idea that New York City may be
quarantined may be locked off that they
may be imprisoned in their home I don't
know where they get it this is the
conversation I was talking about last
night this is a smart person who I know
for a long time just panic just fear
none of that is going to happen none of
that is going to happen
there is no quarantine plan for New York
City oh he said to me well you did a
containment plan for New Rochelle my
containment plan in New Rochelle didn't
contain anyone it was a bad word it
meant to contain the virus you could
come and go in New Rochelle
schools will close large gatherings were
closed but there was no quarantine
containment well you called out the
National Guard I call that the National
Guard that with food delivery and
cleaning surfaces and by the way we use
the National Guard every time there's a
snow storm or a fire or a flood I call
out the National Guard
it does not signal martial law shelter
in place mandatory evacuation but you
don't have to move accurate button don't
call it mandatory evacuation mandatory
fasting but you can eat well then don't
call it fasting if you look at the
principles of shelter in place
first of all shelter in place is
deceptive because it does have a meaning
shelter in place literally means it
comes it's currently used in an active
shooter context it was most recently
used for nuclear war protection and what
shelter and placement was find the room
in your house with no windows where you
would be free from smoke or gases and
stay there until you get the all-clear
sign that's where it comes from
well we mean a modified shelter in place
and don't say shelter in place say
modified shelter in place if you look at
what other places call shelter in place
it's what we're doing now but you're
doing the San Francisco Bay Area is
basically warning people you know only
do essential things you can go get
medicine you can go get groceries things
like that
would you consider that sort of model
the San Francisco model for New York
City or any place
you want to wager $1 that's not what San
Francisco says be careful there it is
see so I won't take your dollar the
shelter in place except go out for
Central Services walk the pet go out for
exercise walking biking running family
members homes to help with a family
member or a family member pet well if
I'm going out to help with pets right
I'm not in a room in the post nuclear
holocaust waiting for an all-clear sign
so language matters that's all I'm
saying
we are doing excuse me a second
businesses were down to only 25 percent
of the workforce should go to work that
will continue to adjust with the spread
the on the residential side stay home
stay home if you have to go out to shop
for essential services go out to shop if
you have to go help a family member they
have a problem go help a family member
with a problem but and if you have to
get outside of the house to exercise to
get some fresh air which is a hundred
percent necessary for a lot of people
out of circumstances then do it but
social distancing just stay away from
people stay away from these people even
in New York City Parks who are all
clustered together I don't know what
they thinking stay away from people a
person can infect you and they won't
even know that they have the virus and
then a special consideration if you are
a senior citizen then hyper cautious on
all these points or compromised immune
or underlying illness but if you look at
with the actual rules Jesse what San
Francisco is doing what we're doing
they're virtually identical words matter
at this point
words matter quarantine
locked down these words are scary words
and nobody is talking about those things
I'm talking about those shelter-in-place
is a scary term for people especially
when they don't know what it means and
especially when you're not doing what it
means if you're not doing that why do
you call it that we have a mandatory
evacuation policy but you don't have to
evacuate well then why did you call a
mandatory evacuation it's not me why do
you why do you scare me and then I have
to get unwound right there's not an
active shooter shelter in place it's not
a nuclear holocaust shelter in place
wait for the all-clear sign there's not
going to be any all-clear sign now that
the deadline has been shortened we
changed the dates didn't we so what the
legislature did yesterday was they
passed a law to make the filing deadline
for the petition travel with the new end
date of the petition previously it had
been I think March 30th and then between
April 1st and April 3rd you had to file
so if you see the dates actually just
traveled exactly the issue with leaving
the filing deadline open is it invites
fraud people can continue to go out and
collect signatures and predate them so
that was all that we did we had the
dates travel together media there is a
lot of chatter on social media about the
village of Kurtis Doerr and there do you
know anything about any positive tests
in that
Village Inn is that an area person at
this point I have not heard that John I
haven't even heard the rumors normally I
get the rooms but I mean there are
rumors a positive pest and encouraged
all and I'm trying to figure out if
that's true I have not heard not that we
are highly attuned to rumors but unless
they come from the LCA those rumors were
here we would have to get those numbers
for you you know we're giving you the
most recent numbers on a rolling basis
but then sometimes they come with
incomplete information as to where is
everyone
and the numbers are getting so big now
that they're hard to get all the
particulars but as soon as we get them
we'll give them to you there is a global
you know how we went through the price
gouging unlike hand sanitizer and you
know we make our own hand sanitizer here
in the state America I can get it for
you I know I know people I know people
citrus smell
I was kidding when I said it was that
floral bouquet I took a pounding for
that I thought it was an obvious joke
obviously not everybody appreciates my
sense of humor yeah I know
I know - well the what was the question
again
ventilators we had price gouging on the
hand sanitizer
the ventilators there is a global rush
for ventilators and literally we have
people on the ground in China you can't
even buy them from China and as I
mentioned ahead the National Governors
Association I had all the gut most of
the governor's on the telephone
yesterday and every state is looking for
them that's why the federal government
has to come in and handle this because
he I believe the Army Corps of Engineers
in the state working together can create
more beds the beds do me very little
good with
the ventilator because almost all of
these kovat cases require the ventilator
and a bed is great but if you don't have
the ventilator then the bed is virtually
useless there is a federal stockpile of
medical equipment I haven't gotten an
official number but the suggestion is
that stockpile has about 12,000
ventilators for the nation again just
for context where we are we have about
five or 6,000 secured we need 30,000
federal government has 12 I mean this is
a bad situation
and it would literally take the federal
government to say to manufacturers stop
what you're making or start making these
machines they're fairly technical as I
understand that but the supply chain
issues are real but it would take the
federal government saying we need to
make these ventilators it would take the
federal government to say we need PPE
equipment we need gloves we need masks
you know when the CDC starts putting our
guidance you can use a scarf as a mask
you know it's time to make more masks
and yesterday rest of the restaurant and
tavern associations wrote a letter you
practically begging you to delay that
deadline is that at all a possibility no
that's John Campbell
you know the video on Bologna he's the
man okay we'll talk later so I don't
like to answer his questions because
this one here Rob can answer because I
don't know the answer I was just
stalling
we're looking at the deadline but just
to be clear this is for sales taxes that
were collected prior right for sales
that were prior to the crisis so it's
people paid their sales taxes the
businesses collect them on behalf of the
state so there's holding those taxes so
we're looking at the deadlines but just
to be clear what that we're not asking
them to pay anything they're holding
taxes that belong to the state but we're
looking at the deadline because they
might not be able to file and the timing
of it so we're considering and we'll
have something a decision on that no
real money for the state in the budget
it's good for people it's good for
industries but its de minimis from our
point of view 1 1 1 less less last point
the I'm glad that Michaela is with me
here today all this government talk this
is a social family issue as much as
anything and it has to be talked through
and dealt with family by family and it's
a little different for all families I'm
dealing with it with my family with my
daughters with my siblings with my
person whoever the most concern for
which is my mother so I thank her for
joining me today she's with me up in
Albany now she's not on spring break
I think it's cooler to be with me than
like Road Trip right are you so thank
you guys very much thank you
No
sing it to everyone
testing positive what what are you doing
to safeguard prisoners and/or guards we
have special precautions in prisons I
don't know anything specific about
Rikers Island I just don't know
thank you guys